# comp495-sp18-flipped-tech
To run the program you must first download node js for you computer. Here is a link to download https://nodejs.org/en/

In order to actually view the database, there are a few hoops to jump through. Same instructions can be found here: https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/tutorials/create-connect-postgresql-db/. First of all, download SQLworkbench (http://www.sql-workbench.net/downloads.html) which allows you to connect to our database. Next, download the latest Postgres JDBC drive (https://jdbc.postgresql.org/) and be sure to remember where you downloaded it to. In the end, you should end with a jar file along the lines of postgressql-42.2.1.jar. 

Next, open up Workbench and a window should open up asking you to enter in a connection profile, otherwise you can find it by going File>Connect Window. Select PostgreSQL for the driver, then it should prompt you about editting the driver defintion. Click yes and in the next dialogue box, click the folder icon and select the JDBC driver(.jar file) that you just downloaded. If you don't get prompted, open up the conenction window dialogue, and in the bottom left corner, click on Manage Drivers. Next, for URL, you can enter this "jdbc:postgresql://flippedtechdb.co5is9ipwn8u.us-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com/FlippedTechDB".

The actual steps to accessing the URL for our databse is login to our Amazon Web Services account(username: snakanishi@sandiego.edu password: Flippedtech!), go to All Services, and under Databases, click on Relation Database Service. Then click on Instances on the left hand side of the screen, click on our databse "flippedtechdb", and scroll down to the details section. Under Security and Network column, copy/paste the Endpoint string, after the "jdbc:postgresql://". Add a "/" after the Endpoint string and copy/paste the DB Name under the Configurations column. 

For Username, it is "flippedtech" and the password is "webdevapp". After that, click Ok and you should be logged into our server. To test if there it worked, in the Statements window, run the command "SELECT * FROM commentstest;", hit execute or Ctrl+E/Cmd+E(I don't have a mac so not sure about this shortcut). In the bottom results panel, you should see a table that contains 4 columns: username, time, date, comment. 

Now we can run the code and test if the node server is properly storing and retrieving data. Navigate to our FlippedTech directory in the command line and run the command "npm start". This will start the "server" of our project. Enter "localhost:3000/lecturePage" in a browser and you should see comments in the Comments box. You can type in new comments (defaults to username erickjperez) and after every comment, if you run the SQL command above again in Workbench, you should see the table updated with a new entry. After done testing, I highly suggest deleting the new comment entries from the database table otherwise the comments will remain there for whoever else tests the code. Use a new command in Workbench, "DELETE FROM commenttest WHERE name = 'erickjperez';" and the run the SELECT command again and the comments you entered should be erased from the table. 

On the offchance that you delete the entire content of the table, I have commented out code inside server.js with instructions on what to do to reset the table with preset comments.